feat: added notifications guide (#1379)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: src/content/docs/2/guide/recipe/notifications.mdx

Reviewer: Since this is about base Tauri functionality/plugins I think this belongs directly in guides and not recipes, right? (A splash screen would be a recipe since it builds on top of already existing Tauri functionality but isn't a function/plugin itself)

Author: You're the one that wanted me to make it about the notifications 😂 But yes as per our definition of what a recipe is this wouldn't fall under it because it doesn't combine multiple features to create something new, it's really just showing off a single feature, so that feature should stand on its own 2 legs to provide documentation for it.

We could expand the definition however to include anything that's copy-paste friendly and following this specific format? Because plugin docs will almost certainly not be structured quite like this and with this level of copy-paste friendliness, so it's easy for people to jump into a recipe and copy-paste code to get up and running quickly, while reading the actual plugin documentation gets a bit more feature rich and in-depth.

Recipes: short, sweet and to the point, gets you up and running with what's essentially a "Hello World" version of something
Guide/Plugin docs: longer, saltier and with a weird aftertaste, gets you the details of how it works and explores features beyond just the Hello World level

Reviewer: Haha sorry, by "base functionality" I mean what you get with plugins out-of-the-box, not how you compose them together (like a splash screen).

> We could expand the definition however to include anything that's copy-paste friendly and following this specific format? Because plugin docs will almost certainly not be structured quite like this and with this level of copy-paste friendliness, so it's easy for people to jump into a recipe and copy-paste code to get up and running quickly, while reading the actual plugin documentation gets a bit more feature rich and in-depth.

Do you mean that you'd prefer if this is a guide and not a recipe that a guide style would be a bit more detailed and verbose (the weird aftertaste like you say? 😆)

Do you have a few examples of some more details and exploration that could be nice here? Looking at the API references I could see an expansion on these topics:

- Actions: https://deploy-preview-1379--tauri-docs-starlight.netlify.app/2/reference/js/notification/#action
- Attachments: https://deploy-preview-1379--tauri-docs-starlight.netlify.app/2/reference/js/notification/#attachment
- Channels: https://deploy-preview-1379--tauri-docs-starlight.netlify.app/2/reference/js/notification/#channel
- Options: https://deploy-preview-1379--tauri-docs-starlight.netlify.app/2/reference/js/notification/#options
- Might be some that I'm missing

If that's what you have in mind, then maybe a document structure like this could work:

```md
## Overview (maybe we lump the security heading in here)
## Setup
## Usage
### Send a Notification
### Actions
### Attachments
### Channels
### Options
```

Then within each of the headings under `Usage` you have that copy-pasteable content like you've mentioned? I know we still need to wrap up the frontend/backend vs. js/rust convo which may give a bit more context to this.

The only thing I think to keep in mind if that's the approach you're thinking is that we don't want to turn the guide into a complete reference doc, right? So we might need to play around a tad bit with what we cover vs. what we link over to a reference for.

---
title: Notifications
description: Stay tuned while we work on some delicious recipes.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> 

Reviewer: Should I put together a component like we mentioned in the Docs call that looks like this?

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/S1ataTw23.png)

Can put that together in a separate PR pretty quickly if you tell me what info would be good there. I can imagine this:

- Version
- GitHub Repo (plugins monorepo, v2 branch)
- npm page (optional)
- crates.io (optional)
- changelog (I would assume pointing to GitHub somewhere)

Anything else I'm missing?

Author: I can't spontaneously think of anything else that would be needed, I think it looks good. 🙂

Reviewer: Added in https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/pull/1430, feel free to merge and add it here. Can always do any tweaks on the design later down the road after we see it in context.

Reviewer: added it in! 🥳

In this recipe we'll take a look at sending a native notification to your user. We'll do this by using the official notification plugin.

> 

Reviewer: Would this page contain a demo? I think having those demos as high-up on the page as possible (above the fold) would be best, but would like your feedback.

Author: Yep this page will have a demo, it used to have one actually but you wanted me to split that component up into its own PR and it hasn't been merged yet 😅 But yes I imagine it being as far up as possible as well, either at the very top or below the description just above the Setup title

Reviewer: Gotcha covered now: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/src/components/Demo.astro

## Setup

> First you have to install the notification plugin in your backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First install the notification plugin in the backend.
```

"Your backend" sounds funny 😆

Author: Such a dirty mind! 😂

<Tabs>

>     <TabItem label="Auto">
>     ```bash
>     tauri plugin add notification
>     ```
>     </TabItem>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <TabItem label="Automatic">
    
    Use the [add command in the Tauri CLI](/2/reference/cli/#plugin-add) to add the plugin:
    
    ```bash
    tauri plugin add notification
    ```
    </TabItem>
```

Reviewer: I think we should list out all the npm/pnpm/cargo/etc. commands. Check out this component to see if it helps simplify that: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/src/components/CommandTabs.astro

Author: Fixed

    <TabItem label="Manual">
        <Tabs>
            <TabItem label="Cargo.toml">
            ```toml
            [dependencies]
            tauri-plugin-notification = "2.0.0-alpha"
            ```
            </TabItem>
            <TabItem label="lib.rs">
            ```rust
            #[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
            pub fn run() {
                tauri::Builder::default()
                    // Initialize the plugin
                    .plugin(tauri_plugin_notification::init())
                    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
                    .expect("error while running tauri application");
            }
            ```
            </TabItem>

>         </Tabs>

Reviewer: UX feedback: If they are sequential steps and not mutually exclusive then don't use tabs. If it's "action A AND action B must be done" then list those out without any tabs. If it's "action B OR Action B" then use tabs (like you've done with Automatic vs. Manual here)

Author: Good point, I'll get rid of the nasty nested tabs. When I made it I was mostly thinking of tabs like viewing them in VSCode for example, but yea, it's not an IDE, it's a guide, so sequential steps make more sense to have one after the other.

let permissionGranted = await isPermissionGranted();

// If not we need to request it
if (!permissionGranted) {
	const permission = await requestPermission();
	permissionGranted = permission === 'granted';
}

// Once permission has been granted we can send the notification
if (permissionGranted) {
	sendNotification({ title: 'TAURI', body: 'Tauri is awesome!' });
}
```

### Backend

You can also create notifications straight from the backend. All you need to do is create an instance of `Notification` and `.show()` it.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Command">
    ```rust
    use tauri_plugin_notification::Notification;

    #[tauri::command]
    async fn notify(app: AppHandle) -> Result<(), ()> {
        Notification::new(&app.config().tauri.bundle.identifier)
            .title("New message")
            .body("You've got a new message.")
            .show()
    }
    ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Window event">
    ```rust
    ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Setup function">
    ```rust
    ```
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Deep dive

### How it works

The API sends a signal over the IPC to the backend. After that either the `notify-rust` or `win7-notifications` crate

> takes care of sending a notification to the users system.

Reviewer: This might be good information, but I don't feel it's relevant for the reader here. They don't really care about how it works under the hood. Any of this information I'd capture directly in the source (if it isn't already very clear) where it could be much more relevant for someone there.

Author: For this specific one there isn't much to say about it, but there are other recipes where it could be more relevant with some form of deep dive. Though then again, the recipes should be short sweet and to the point, so maybe you're right and such deep dives are better done as blog posts.

> ### Security

Reviewer: I really love this type of section. I think this is a really good place we could mark a `TODO:` to write a concept on sanitisation of user input and then link to it from here.

Author: Yea I feel like as a project with a strong sense for security this sort of section would be really appreciated by people.
